#Bass Model Analysis of Innovation Diffusion  

This repository contains Assignment 1 (DS223), which uses the Bass Diffusion Model to study the adoption of the Honor Magic V3 foldable smartphone.  
The project compares the Honor Magic V3 with earlier foldable devices (e.g., Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 5, Huawei Mate X5, Honor Magic V2) to understand adoption trends and forecast future market penetration.  

Key aspects of the analysis include:  
- Preparing and cleaning historical data on unit shipments, revenue, and regional growth.  
- Estimating Bass model parameters (`p`, q, `M`).  
- Fitting the model and projecting future adoption trends.  
- Visualizing diffusion curves, forecasts, and regional adoption patterns.  

---

## Repository Structure

- DS223-assignements/  
  - bass_model.ipynb – Main Jupyter Notebook containing the analysis  
  - requirements.txt – Python dependencies  
  - report/ –  Project final reports 
  - img/ – Plots and figures generated by the notebook  
  - data/ – Input datasets used in the analysis  

---
## Data

The analysis uses the following datasets, all stored in the data/ folder:  

- data/YoY growth rate of the global foldable market from 1st quarter 2022 to 1st quarter 2023, by region.xlsx – Year-over-year growth rates for the global foldable smartphone market, broken down by region. 
- data/Unit shipments of foldable smartphones worldwide from 2022 to 2025 (in millions).xlsx – Historical and forecasted unit shipments of foldable smartphones globally (in millions). This dataset is used to fit the Bass diffusion model and estimate adoption parameters.  

- data/study_id168426_foldable-smartphones.pptx – Presentation summarizing key market trends, shipment data, and regional insights for foldable smartphones. Some data in the Excel sheets were extracted from this source.  



## Setup Instructions

1. Clone the repository  
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/shushanmeyroyan/DS223-assignements.git
   cd DS223-assignements

2. Create a virtual environment
python3 -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate       # macOS/Linux
venv\Scripts\activate          # Windows

3. Install dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt


4. Launch Jupyter Notebook
jupyter notebook

5. Open bass_model.ipynb and run all cells to reproduce the analysis.

 Results 
The notebook provides:
Estimated Bass model parameters (p, q, M) for foldable smartphones.
Forecasted adoption curves and revenue projections.
Visualizations of regional adoption differences.
Insights into market potential and expected diffusion patterns for the Honor Magic V3.# DS223-assignements
